=head1 SEEDtk Project Notes

This file contains important notes about the SEEDtk programming environment.

=head1 Directory Configuration

The default directory structure includes a I<data directory>, a I<source directory>,
and a I<web directory>.

=head2 The Source Directory

The source directory will generally be stored somewhere controlled by the GIT
source control system. Inside the source directory are four important folders.

=over 4

=item config

This contains the configuration files. The folder contains a C<.gitignore> file
that prevents any of its contents from being pushed to the source control
repository. This means that items in this directory are not shared.

=item utils

This contains the main scripts.

=item kernel

This contains the kernel PERL modules.

=item ERDB

This contains the PERL modules for the ERDB database layer.

=back

=head3 FIG_Config

The structural information about the SEEDtk environment is kept in the L<FIG_Config> file
in the B<config> directory. You can add new PERL library folders by putting them in the
B<@plibs> variable and new script folders by putting them in the B<@pscripts> variable.
After changing the FIG_Config, run the L<Configure.pl> script with the C<--fc=off> option,
which will update the environment script C<Uconfig.sh>. After updating this script, 
you will need to restart your shell and do another

	source UConfig.sh

command.

In Windows, you can direct L<Configure.pl> to write environment information to the
system registry. If this is the case, you must reboot the system to access the
new environment. 

=head2 The Data Directory

Inside the data directory there are three main folders.

=over 4

=item DnaRepo

The repository for DNA sequences, generally in the form of contig FASTA files.

=item Inputs

The default holding place for data to be loaded into the database. Genome
directories are stored in C<Inputs/GenomeData> and subsystem directories in
C<Inputs/SubSystemData>.

=item LoadFiles

The storage directory for the files used to load the database.

=back

=head2 The Web Directory

The web directory contains files that produce a web site with useful development
features. This web site is designed for use as a localhost server on a laptop
or desktop PC as opposed to on an actual Unix server. This requires a great
deal of setup, so its use is entirely optional; however, it provides the
benefits of easy access to the POD documentation, quick testing of simple PERL
scripts, and display of the DBD.

If you do not intend to use the localhost server, the only purpose for the
Web directory is to provide a default location for the temporary files.
This is in the C<Tmp> subfolder.

=head3 SEEDTK CODE Facility

The main page has a list of search boxes including one labeled C<SEEDTK CODE>.
Type the name of a perl module in this box, or the name of a script (including
the C<.pl> suffix) to see the relevant POD documentation.

The buttons below the box have the following functions.

=over 4

=item Links

Display B<Links.html>, a page of useful web links. You can edit this file yourself,
but a default is generated by L<Configure.pl>.

=item DBD

Display the Shrub database design.

=item Methods

Display a page containing forms that help to generate method documentation and test
simple PERL scripts.

=item Scripts

Display a list of command-line scripts and their functions.

=item ENV

Display the environment variables.

=item Config

Display the configuration variables and their values.

=back

=head1 Setting up a Unix Environment

First, you need a user name and password on GITHUB, and it must be an authorized contributor to the C<seedtk_test>
repository.

Position in your home directory. In the examples below, it will be assumed your user name is C<username>. Simply
substitute your real username when typing the commands. 

Clone the repository using GIT.

	git clone https://username@github.com/bparrello/seedtk_test.git SEEDtk

You will be prompted for a password. A new directory C<SEEDtk> will be created at the current
location and the SEEDtk files will be loaded into it.

At this point I recommend changing to the SEEDtk directory, as it simplifies most of the paths
you'll have to type.

	cd SEEDtk






